hello everyone um this is the weekly
call for an orbit the goal today is to
figure out what we wanted you in the
next few months
with orbit if you open the etherpad I'm
gonna put that on IRC oh it's already
there
thank you so let's just go through kind
of what's there at the moment and see
what that means um basically my wish and
idea for the next quarter is to make
orbit usable for other than prototyping
purposes so people can actually use it
we just um managed to get orbit to a
state where is completely servantless
completely distributed completely on IPs
and that's that has been a goal for for
that project for about a year now and so
we're finally at a point where we can
start making it a real thing okay so all
the issues are goals that I've I've
listed on my wish list is or all of them
are basically work towards making orbit
usable for a small team which is the
first goal um this is an overarching
goal for pretty much everything and we
yeah that's kind of like the mango um
what that entails is it would be really
nice to have a place where people can
download orbit and start using it right
right now you have to do a lot of NPM uh
poops and loops and install seven and
slow and things who might be broken
every now and then and so on what would
be much better is that you or we have a
URL where you can download a build that
is already compiled and includes all all
that stuff
that you would normally do with the re4
right now so that's one thing
there has been requests for making a
simple website for it so that we can put
the actual build links to it and kind of
point people to you somewhere where they
can start digging deeper into the code
or or just basically downloaded um and
then on orbit side itself there's a few
organizational structural things that I
would really like to first one is to
separate the UI from the Orphic repo
it's there for historical reasons but I
think it would be time to take it out
and make it a separate project Victor so
why why you want told us so the the next
one orbit J is the core of orbit is
actually one file about 200 lines of
code and it works as a separate module
so the idea is that we have one module
for doing that communication stuff
basically the orbit chat protocol in
itself so that we have a module that you
can use to build other you guys so for
example detects you ID that the terminal
UI that one showed earlier or the
different kind of sub BOTS that do you
stuff on the network and so on and now
they're all together like the electron
version the J's I've hit this version
the coracle code of it and so on that's
basically why they need to be separate
any cool um and then recently we got
more people actually interested in orbit
so thank you for everyone who has tested
orbit in the last few weeks and
reporting issues it's been fantastic to
see how it breaks everywhere but one of
the key things is Windows I think it's
time to give some love to
the window studs things we haven't done
anything to make it work and so we're
basically shooting in a dark here at the
moment and I would like to make it so
that it actually works for Windows users
as well um that might come with some
work to other JavaScript ecosystem
packages and mainly go wipe FSG pendency
um and then you know maybe we get some
work to go I have s in a cell from this
I don't know but like heads up um what
else then I would like to add more
testing more kind of fixing little
annoyances here and there and make the
user experience really smooth in a way
that you don't have to guess whether
it's working or not you know whether you
can connect to other people when they
clearly sit next to you and you're
chatting on the same channel one of
these a performance related to the data
transfer so with the pumps that we're
now sending the hashes of the messages
we won't send the actual messages over
reduce already one round-trip from the
whole thing and apparently on carrion
when we're saying that it'll be a lot
more stable also so that's kind of cool
I really wanted to you that um
namespacing the channels right now all
the channels in orbit are just one
string basically the name of the channel
and they get translated into pop sub
topics so namespacing them in a nice way
that we don't clash with anything and
there's an all of these have issues open
on on github so discussion can can
happen on individual items there um
see then yeah few kind of small but
important ui/ux improvements like adding
a date separator um cuz you know it gets
confusing if you come back online and
you see the message you're smart
yesterday but you only see the timestamp
so you're like these are old or new
messages and it gets kind of
wibbly-wobbly timey-wimey
um orbit an IRC I don't think I will
personally have time to work on this but
there's been few people in the community
that have expressed interest so
basically the idea here is to figure out
a way how orbit can be used together
with RC not as a as a bridge as as you
would normally do it so that there's a
server somewhere running an IRC client
and and handling all the communication
because that involves setup for for the
users I would like to find a much better
solution where you just kind of lock
launch orbit and then join say slash RC
/ IP FS and you get on the actual
artists each channel and it works both
ways so you get messages from IRC and
you can post messages on IRC there's few
difficult things there like identity and
um kind of yeah
identity is one of them and that kind of
boils down to how you architecture in
but I would be really really happy to
see people working on this um in the
next quarter and make that happen and
then yeah basically like cache emojis
the the emoji icons is one of the
examples of what we should do these are
kind of may seem small and they're kind
of chores but at the same time they're
all related to the user experience that
you get with orbit so for example if you
have orbit right now the the application
and you started it when you're offline
the funds are not displaying the emojis
that are not displaying because they're
not cached they're they're downloaded
from
urls from where they were taken so it
would be really nice to package them
into the build itself so that once you
download orbit it actually really works
completely out of the box and then one
more thing is bots last quarter I spend
quite a bit of time to make sure that
you can easily write these BOTS and it's
not possible the only missing piece is
the separating the orbit core into some
modules so then you can just npm install
it required and you have the whole orbit
communication layer without the the so
what what I have on my wish list is
there anything anyone else would like to
add to orbit itself like features or
whatever
yeah every question you said I just
missed it in the other recording cuz
you're you're broke up BOTS he's been a
good time and I'm not spending every one
now separating a separate chorus oh well
you can MP am i without what you can
basically npm install the orbit
communication code right now you can't
do that like it's not on NPM as a
package picture so you mean making it
easy for doing it writing months exactly
yeah
so I do have three three points I want
to talk about when it comes towards
first it's the the overall UX like not
about the fonts that is loading that's
like how I used to actually use its
orbit and try to understand how we can
make it I mean it's it's a bit confusing
with the for example that we're trying I
think and it's real England with
replying there are some confusing
elements and I think it would be good if
we do a process for the user journey in
the application rather than just showing
up everything in the in the beginning
completely empty to do sort of
onboarding in the application to make it
easy so I think you better if I'm gay or
anything you think it would be pretty
useful to have like a user once a user
storyboarding but like I feel like a
clear look into all these different
types of design decisions for the user
experience on the product and how this
all fit together and other potential
things that we may do there or am I
getting that right so kind of like
product design yeah exactly thinking
about the the product features that we
want to to have instead of like rushing
step by step take a step back and look
at like what could or be to be if we
actually think about the kind of problem
that were not sure what you mean can you
elaborate on that
some way for example a quick thing to do
would be to just look at the different
clients that exists today take the best
features of those and try to make
something similar to that before orbit
will have its own identity I think what
returning it has is right now all of
that product design is happening in your
head family and other people don't have
access to that and oftentimes there's
other things that people are noticing
are potential problems that you may not
be noticeable or something and orbit
needs to get to the point where like the
decisions are made around you know
something like we're flying or something
like you know various things are kind of
like documented and discussed so that
things can be highlighted or shown as
hey maybe would be we should be going in
this direction or here's a set of
features that sound like really valuable
or how do those fit and so on I think
does that kind of make sense that
totally makes sense so I've been trying
to I'll put all of my ideas in kind of
the direction into the issues on github
so to me that sounds like there isn't
one clear place where you could go and
see like this is what orbit would look
like does I think I think this just
means so there's like writing writing
about one feature and kind of like
describing the need of that one feature
and so on and then I think you did an
awesome job that's like--that's that
make sense I think maybe I may or may
not be understanding Victor right but I
think what is desired is kind of like a
product design perspective at it of like
here all the potential different pieces
here's like the user flow here's like
you know the set of screens that happens
you think about it kind of like
wireframes or like a like a you know
like a tree of of changes so you can't
and get to see like the whole understand
and it's something I actually started
there's a design notes document but it's
not very far but this is this is
something we we totally should do
basically a yeah like a product design
okay Matt one way that I often think
about that part of the process is that
it's about narrative it's about building
up stories more than just like that a
j'l sense of stories it's about building
a narrative about who is using the
application what is their experience and
that might be storyboards it might be
there are a lot of different ways you
can collect that information but it's
more like there's a thread of design
discussions and decisions that are about
framing that narrative and it sounds
like your what your toe you're stepping
around Stephanie into is is giving a
space for that conversation to happen
yeah sounds really good
um Viktor just that answer all of your
questions or I take you through I think
just like the I don't know the first
experience for the user you know and
just make it simple for people to use I
think it's very important when we were
building something for a new source
absolutely totally agreed um anything
else one I think one thing that I would
love to kind of dive down and do so
there's you already listed a lot of
those the kind of hurdles that people
have right now with um using urban and
so like making your website for it
downloading it and so on I think when
one medicine we can do those can be
super useful
similar to like a product design thing
is to do kind of like this just sit down
and and and go through all the different
pieces together as a group like maybe
you know three or four of us that like
care about this and like just and really
enumerated what all these different
pieces need to be like I think on the on
distribution 's auto-update mechanism
within the electrode app so they can
actually like update itself without
having to have the user really like
there's a ton of these things you know
bugs that come up when people install it
and try to use it like just like sitting
together and kind of like working
through all of that I think would
probably be kind of like generation of
these of these cards might be super
useful together okay so far you've been
doing a lot of heavy lifting on that and
we haven't been we've only like had
spurts of like helping but it might be
really useful to sit down like
like I've dedicated like look I kind of
like out of the whole thing and be like
okay from user hears the word orbits and
gets a link to the users now chatting
happily what are all the touch points
and what are all the pieces that we
could you know we need to anyplace yeah
we'd love to do that let's get that
process started this week and find a
place to have that discussion with with
the community included I know there's
other people who are not in this call
who would be very happy to participate
in that Friedel has been waiting for a
long time yeah I wanted to say something
on the only unit experienced quickly
this is one of the features of slack
this is playing the one thing that made
them very successful is how much and how
well they did user experience how well
and things like that and there is just a
lot we can learn from this even if we
personally don't agree with choices
slack doesn't make the general sense
they they made of how to understand
their users is very very good and
something we should aim for with for bid
if we want to make it an honest and real
replacement agreed definitely Matt you
had something I was just gonna suggest
with this the discussion before freedo
commented that product is I think maybe
have a milestone on your roadmap for
some sort of deliverable from those
conversations having happened that
you'll whether it's a design document or
whatever and then actually put it on
your roadmap so that people see where it
where it is yeah that sounds really good
I'm I'm super happy that we're finally
at this point that we can discuss is he
singing okay so anything else anyone
regarding the features or if not let's
continue on the agenda items
so Richard added Reed nice one readme
for all awesome repose can you elaborate
on that
yeah we covered that in the last call
all hands it's just basically
documentation how we're gonna talk to
you about that so just not worry about
it cool uh solid ducks okay
people are asking being able to load
orbit with a Lynx should we discuss this
a little bit so I hey totally agreed
this would be a fantastic user
experience you give a link and they're
chatting like that's all you need that
would be ideal
um what that requires is orbit working
with Jase IGFs and in the in the last
few weeks as we integrated up so and all
these kind of experiments hold stuff
that was kind of dropped out so there's
work that needs to happen on orbit sled
to make it work again with Jase ipfs and
there's work that needs to happen on in
JSF aside to be compatible mainly
pub/sub um I don't know exactly what the
status of that is but as soon as it's in
I would be more than happy to get it
merged and started using it and start
working on this part as well okay when
working that needs to be added to make
that experience really really good is
relay so and it will come in the Jessica
first chat and now we should like to
develop Jessica test for next quarter
and now if you like set our priorities
but like essentially we need relay to be
present on go ipfs so that like people
can i close JEP first in the browser and
like connect to the rest of network
without like seeing any problems yeah
and I think there's a quick solution for
that which is the bots we can make the
if the interrupts works with Jace and
and go we can run the bots who are kind
of catching the channels so then you at
least have something there that can in a
pass through the things and while it's
not a deal solution at least that would
get us started
while we kind of implement the relay
Stefan and so one uh couple things one
thing where the bots come in
so I was like sorry one part where where
the BOTS come in you can put them
actually out once in scription it comes
in you can put them outside of
encryption and they're really just
relaying these ciphertexts
and so they actually can look and so not
all bots will do that right so but some
bots can be just bouncers of data and
they could potentially do this for like
channels that are new right so one piece
the other thing I was going to mention
is am I getting sorry if it was so
important
Oh Marcel so the question is is
observing jas there and working and and
as well as for a difference it is not a
degraded on genocide get dressed but we
have we peer-to-peer fourth sub working
or anything we've do I pass pops up so
it's just a matter of like integrating
Gavin also has been working a lot on
like the pub sub test net and also very
like some order to integrate all right
put our pub sub over that just like best
about apologies make sure that the yeah
I'm doing these likes like using too
much memory or am I dreaming up stuff
that we should be cleaning but yeah
there's a lot of work there we know that
we have interrupts we have the
primitives with the last thing I was
working on on observe was really when we
eat the interface discussion because I
was like creating a different interface
starting from the lip it appear foot
self and then the interface and Jeremy
bill forgot because was different and
yeah now we know we know which universe
it has to be and I understand why and we
have basically to my get interface I've
been on the Jessa is up the interface
that we wrote down in notes or is that
the interface of door give us it is
interface that we wrote the notes I'm
busy I'm more specifically talking about
the way the subscriptions are made and
I'll be are cancelled remember I was
with the idea that like it would be
beneficial to have and for me to start a
subscription and I'm gonna not to cancel
it and and they're like one end points
to subscribe to the feed over this even
subscription but apparently it is better
for the developer if the subscription
gets cancelled if the requests on that
subscription gets canceled as well if
this is confusing for everyone I'm sorry
but there is notes about this I agree
with that right now we have to do kind
of a hack in JSI Fitness API to track
the subscription so if
if that can be handled on in a restful
way in the API so that we don't keep the
state in jail Gervais if you that would
be fantastic
we'll just lay down Jessica yeah I was
more in favor of the restful way that's
like one and Jeremy pointed out and
really made the case of like having IP
fest nodes with subscriptions angry
exists there without anyone like
checking what they are subscribed to can
be very a VI em network so it is better
like if you draw the requests just like
to draw the subscription like SharePoint
and we can make that state up and
because like we also don't want to
requests for the same feed so we have to
make that happen
on just because API and which will be
the same thing that gets offered by just
a bit that's alright it's got it makes
sense um Richard I've another thing I'd
like to talk about with orbit is it ok
to move on or yes I was just gonna
propose that and I also have one more
thing and we got three minutes two
minutes so be quick
I think lines quick we talk in the
elevator about this earlier metrics for
a p8 for orbit seeing how many users
there are how many rooms there are can
this be done and should it be on the
robots ok so my take on that is that
first of all we don't want to track
users in a way that it's done normally
in these kind of applications um there
so like basically that means no Google
Analytics or any similar component in
any part of the the code bases however
what we could do is use orbit to track
orbit in in a way that we can make it
completely anonymous no IVs no user
names just knowing that there's a new
user somewhere um joined in um might be
difficult and I haven't really thought
the whole thing through but we might be
able to do something if not then we just
gotta live with that for now I I
personally put the privacy of the users
above getting metrics so we need to
figure out some kind of a good solution
here one you know way to approach this I
sort of think about the social
networking aspects absorb it and think
through how to structure that right so
there could be a very natural way to do
this which is like friend lists right so
when you have a friend list you can and
then some notion of like whether it it's
public that you listed on a channel or
not right and so you could easily like
start reversing and navigating to other
channels like seeing who has what or
certain directories where you can
actually choose to list your channel and
you know directory it's voluntary
totally agreed um there might be a good
solution for this we should open an
issue in orbit and discusses last point
before we and this is not actually
ordered related but or wordid DB since
kicks is here I wanted to point out that
he's been working on an implementation
of ipfs log in go which is the very core
most important component of this whole
stack and I guess the idea there is to
build orbit DB and maybe eventually
orbit in itself in goal completely so I
don't we haven't discussed yet about the
details but it it's there and maybe
after this quarter we already have a
much better idea what what that will end
up being kicks you don't have to talk if
you don't want to but if you want to say
something about this that would be
fantastic
I don't know yeah I think I'm personally
more interested in making orbit to be in
orbit itself maybe like some sea ice but
not the gooey person yeah maybe other
implications and Chet are also
interesting for me but yeah we'll see
Adam I need to get over to be ready
first very cool and thank you for
restarting that work I'm looking forward
to get it further that's fantastic
so that was it were one minute later any
really important to say or do we call it
quits one one more thing people love
orbit like it just blows people's minds
every time I show it to somebody and
they're super excited about these
possibilities like they really get it
when you tell them hey this is good
appear distributed has no servers
anywhere like that is a big deal I know
I mean I've been trying to say this this
is why I'm so happy nowadays cuz we're
finally there so but thank you that's
awesome to to hear and let's let's as a
demon as a community let's make sure
that we really make it a cool thing for
for everyone to use and finally get the
future of the web in the way it was
always supposed to be right cool
so let's move on to the next call thank
you everyone
thank you thanks for getting us back on
unscheduled HUD I think we also might
have a create a great jiff of all of us
nodding in unison